Component configuration guides (#41)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/configuration-guides/components/velero.md

# Velero configuration reference for Lokomotive

## Contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Argument reference](#argument-reference)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Uninstallation](#uninstallation)

## Introduction

[Velero](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero) helps you back up and restore your Kubernetes
cluster resources and persistent volumes.

## Prerequisites

* A Lokomotive cluster accessible via `kubectl` deployed on Azure AKS.

> * Permissions to create Service principles with Azure AKS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Permissions to create Service Principals with Azure AKS.
```

## Configuration

> Velero component is currently supported only on Azure AKS. Support for another platforms will be added in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Velero component is currently supported only on Azure AKS. Support for another platforms will be added in the future.
```

> In order to use Velero on Azure, you need to have Application (service principle) created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use Velero on Azure, you need to have Application (Service Principal) created
```

> for it. This service account needs to have access to storage account with blob storage,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for it. This service account needs to have access to a storage account with blob storage,
```

    client_id       = "d44117a8-b69d-437b-9073-e4e3b25e164a"
    client_secret   = "c26f9698-a563-409e-87ee-4dcf96007b73"
    resource_group  = "my-resource-group"

    backup_storage_location {
      resource_group  = "my-resource-group"
      storage_account = "mybackupstorageaccount"
      bucket          = "backupscontainer"
    }

    # Optional parameters
    volume_snapshot_location {
      resource_group = "my-resource-group"
      api_timeout    = "10m"
    }
  }

  # Optional.
  metrics {
    enabled = false
    service_monitor = false
  }

  provider = "azure"
  namespace = "velero"
}
```

## Argument reference

Table of all the arguments accepted by the component.

Example:

| Argument                                        | Description                                                                                                                | Default                                           | Required |
|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------:|:--------:|

> | `provider`                                      | Supported provider name. Currently acceptable value is `azure`.                                                            | "azure"                                           | false    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `provider`                                      | Supported provider name. Only `azure` is supported for now.                                                            | "azure"                                           | false    |
```

| `namespace`                                     | Namespace to install Velero.                                                                                               | "velero"                                          | false    |

> | `metrics`                                       | Configure Prometheus to scrape Velero metrics. Needs [Prometheus operator component] installed.                            | -                                                 | false    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `metrics`                                       | Configure Prometheus to scrape Velero metrics. Needs the [Prometheus Operator component](prometheus-operator.md) installed.                            | -                                                 | false    |
```

| `azure.backup_storage_location.bucket`          | Name of the storage container to store backups.                                                                            | -                                                 | true     |
| `azure.volume_snapshot_location`                | Configure PVC snapshot location.                                                                                           | -                                                 | false    |
| `azure.volume_snapshot_location.resource_group` | Azure Resource Group where snapshots will be stored.                                                                       | Stored in the same resource group as the cluster. | false    |
| `azure.volume_snapshot_location.api_timeout`    | Azure API timeout.                                                                                                         | "10m"                                             | false    |

## Installation

To install the Velero component:

```bash
lokoctl component install velero
```

### Post-insallation

> For day-to-day tasks, `velero` CLI tool is a recommended way to interact with Velero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For day-to-day tasks, the `velero` CLI tool is the recommended way to interact with Velero.
```

> You can find how to install it in [official documentation](https://velero.io/docs/master/basic-install/#install-the-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find how to install it in the [official documentation](https://velero.io/docs/master/basic-install/#install-the-cli).
```
